---
title: Day 1
date: 2017-08-30 17:00:00 -0000
exercise: 0
music: 30
books: 1
field_trip: 0
---
Things to write about:

* You learned about The Lyceum in Ancient Greece. What was it? Who founded it?
* You learned about The Lyceum Movement. What was it?
* You worked on a project to describe your school. What did you make?
* You practiced music. What did you do? **Don't forget to log minutes!**
* You ~~did~~ started a science experiment. What did you do? What do you expect to happen next?
* How many books did you finish since your last journal entry? **Record the number** and write what they were.

***

The Lyceum was a temple dedicated to the greek god Apollo Lycaeum. I got this from [lyceum classical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyceum_(Classical)).

The Lyceum movement supported education.

I made a picture for are homeshooling logo, It was a picture of some stuff about math and exersising some writing and stuff like social studies.

When we practiced music we played seppratley for about 5 minutes then i went downstairs and me and jack made up some songs and practiced together.

when mama got home we had a snack then we starded a science project were you boil some ingretients and put them in petri dishes after 2 hours we got stuff that would grow bacteriea on the stuff in the petri dish and put the petri dishes in a dark spot. After that we made a very simple slimy snot that was very hard when fineshed.

A day ago i fineshed a book about greek mythology so today i put it in my entry today.
