---
title: Day 1
date: 2017-08-30 17:00:00 -0000
exercise: 0
music: 30
books: 0
field_trip: 0
---
Things to write about:

* You learned about The Lyceum. What was it? Who founded it?
* You learned about The Lyceum Movement. What was it?
* You worked on a project to describe your school. What did you make?
* You practiced music. What did you do? **Don't forget to log minutes!**
* You ~~did~~ started a science experiment. What did you do? What do you expect to happen next?
* How many books did you finish since your last journal entry? **Record the number** and write what they were.

***

Today we learned about the Lyceum in Ancient Greece. The Lyceum was a temple to Apollo but Aristotle founded a school there and named it after the temple name.

The Lyceum Movement was made in 19th century America. It included organizations that were made for improving the social,intellectual, and moral parts of society. Through lectures,dramatic performances,class instructions and debates,it contributed a lot to the education of the 19th century American adult. ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyceum_movement))

We worked on a project to describe our school. I made a name,a logo,and a motto for it. The name was New Lyceum and the motto was "Lyceum loves to teach 'em!"

Today when we practiced music,Simon came down with me and we made our own songs.

Today we started a science experiment. We made gelatin and put it in petri dishes. Then we rubbed cotton swabs on the toilet seat,in my ear,on Simon's hand,and Simon's toes. Then we rubbed them on the gelatin in the petri dishes. I think the bacteria will form in clumps and when we look at it with the magnifying glass we will see big lumps,or weird shapes( as described in the instruction booklet.)

