---
title: Week 1
date: 2017-09-05 17:00:00 -0000
---
### Tuesday

Jack also read the 1st chapter in Howard Zinn's A People's History of the United States, about Christopher Columbus, to complement the book included in the curriculum. He used the [Audobon.org Bird Guide](http://www.audubon.org/bird-guide) for Science.

Simon did some mental/verbal math as well, discussed the associative and commutative properties of addition & subtraction, and discussed the Tower of Babel story.

Both kids checked on their Disgusting Science experiments, where bacteria had bloomed (on agar) from samples from their body (toes and ears) and spots in the bathroom.

### Wednesday

Simon would like to practice cursive more before writing in cursive. He did well with division & multiplication problems in practice sheets, but didn't feel like those topics were taught first.

Jack completed his math work for the week (mostly review) and began a writing assignment for Social Studies/English.

### Thursday

We talked in the car this morning about how hurricanes are formed, climate science, and increasing frequency and strength of hurricanes due to global warming after listening to news updates about Hurricane Irma.

We talked about fractions at lunch (when filling a pot of water to boil) and compass positions when talking about turning the stove knob to "medium-high."

We have 36 lessons in Oak Meadow. On a straight timeline those would take us through mid-May. With a week or two off, end of May. So we can adjust pacing a bit.