---
title: Week 1
date: 2017-09-01 19:45:00 -0000
---
Wednesday of this week was the first day of school for Vermont students. Amie went back to work in the preschool on Monday.

The kids made their own breakfast and lunch every day this week—and cleaned up after themselves—with some supervision, advice, or an extra hand where needed. They continue to help clean up after dinner and helped with choices while food shopping Monday morning. They were mindful of their time and things they needed to get done, and managed their own unstructured time, when they went outside to play or read books.

We're going to start the Oak Meadow curriculum after Labor Day. We did start logging school days in the kids' journal on Wednesday of this week as well. The kids have been making choices about how to use their learning time and enthusiastically working on computer literacy while getting used to both flexibility and structure in their days.

I'm learning to be mindful of ambiguity and expectations in projects or assignments. Some things we did this week:

1. Designed a logo or artwork for our school. I've used the name "New Lyceum" for our online materials and printed out Wikipedia articles about The Lyceum in Ancient Greece, the U.S. Lyceum Movement, and Lyceum schools throughout the world. Their artwork went into their master lesson books.
2. Practiced music (ukulele and drums) regularly. On our first day, the kids decided to work together to come up with and practice their own song.
3. Started typing lessons/drills using a Super Mario typing game that we downloaded, so the kids can work more efficiently when journaling or coding.
4. Emphasized completing new books and our 100-book challenge. The kids are avid readers, but need to branch out, and finish a higher percentage of books they start.
5. Used the Disgusting Science kit to study bacteria and prepare specimens for observation.
6. Used the microscope for the first time to look more closely at a bug.
7. Visited the library and brought home a slew of books to bolster our studies, including Arabian Nights, Aesop's Fables, French language books, and a book of cardboard crafts.
8. Wrote a journal entry for every day that counted as a school day. We also had two previous entries from viewing the solar eclipse and our field trip to Kingdom Community Wind Farm.

Next week we will begin doing morning meeting and looking at the Oak Meadow lesson plans to structure curriculum studies. Some other ideas I have in mind:

1. Writing and drawing a modern interpretation of one of Aesop's fables.
2. Looking at various types of maps together—online and offline.