---
title: Week 3
date: 2017-09-11 17:00:00 -0000
---
### Thursday

We're working on Simon's tendency to rush work to call something done and his need to be busy and stimulated. Jack's diligent at sitting down, reading, and doing what's prescribed; Simon questions what he doesn't see immediate value in, sometimes considers time-consuming tasks 'hard', and then gets bored.

Tying in to the Oak Meadow Ancient Cultures subjects, Simon's reading one chapter from Gilgamesh each day in addition to other reading, building up the narrative that is the basis for many of the Greek stories he's familiar with. The curriculum will soon shift from Hebrew culture to Phoenician; he read an entry in an encyclopedia-style book on ancient civilizations on Phoenica this week as well. We have a library book on Sumeria as well, which is where Gilgamesh originates.

Simon needs some busywork to reinforce the habits of spending time on a subject, slowing down, and forming muscle memory for clear writing and working through problems. I added more math sheets in this morning as well as more spelling words. I've also made his daily task list more explicit, with parameters around time, number of pages to read, and expectations for complete sentences and showing work. A focus on spelling words will continue to be important for Simon.

We picked up some index cards this week to begin putting dates on a timeline. I'd explained BC/AD (or BCE/CE) to Simon earlier this week.

Jack's doing well with creative writing assignments and learning history. Language Arts (vocabulary and grammar) come naturally to him as well. He's comfortable with the "refresher" level math he's doing, as am I. I'd rather see him build confidence than aggressively tackle advanced topics in math. We struggled a bit yesterday with Oak Meadow's assignment to design and conduct an experiment having to do with frog populations in our neighborhood. We reframed that step in the Scientific Method as a 'test' and talked about ways to make observations or study data to uncover results.

This morning we talked through the Scientific Method in detail and talked about why it's important: as a common language for scientists to conduct peer review and so that we can trust science, which should be qualified by peer-reviewed scientific journals.

Both kids did well in their History for Homeschoolers session at the VT History Museum yesterday, participating, encouraging and involving their other group member, making sure work was done, and sorting out who would speak for the group.

Simon asked to do more recorder instead of practicing drums with his lessons CD today as I'd asked. We sat down and reviewed:

* Whole note scale and chromatic scale
* Types of instruments (woodwind, percussion, brass, string)
* How notes are arranged on woodwinds (C, B, A, G at the top, F, E, D, middle C at bottom)
* Where those notes appear on a treble clef

### Friday

We talked through conducting an experiment at home to prove whether increased CO2 would increase plant growth, using separate bottles with plants in them, injecting breath (CO2) into one, using caps on the bottles to control CO2. We discussed the variables that would be introduced by putting caps on the bottles, how we might mitigate those, and what other variables might be introduced by mitigation. We talked about peer review and how pointing out variables that weren't accounted for could nullify research or findings.

The kids also watched a YouTube video today to observe the effects of cigarette smoking. (Health)